So the other bit of kind of rabbit hole
research landed me on another quick
framework that I wanna share with you
that was developed by Kim Cameron and
Robert Quinn in 1999.
It's called the competing
values framework.
And in this framework, there are four
primary types of organizational culture.
And they call it competing
values because the x and
y axis are two spectrums
of competing values.
Let's just take a look and
maybe that'll make it clear.
So the y axis spans from
flexible to focused,
flexible meaning a really dynamic
culture or an adaptive cultures.
These are cultures that have a willingness
to change as things shift around them,
and focused meaning more stable or
ordered cultures.
These maybe have confidence to
stay true to their founding
ideals in the midst of a lot of change.
And then on the x-axis,
we span from an internal orientation
to an external orientation.
Internal means that they
make decisions based on
factors that originate inside the company.
So maybe the concerns of their employees.
External means they make decisions
based on factors that originate outside
the company.
In that scenario, we're thinking about
things like the economy or the market or
technology changes, right?
So it's about their orientation for
change.
Now, I'll tell you this, that most
organizations are gonna have some
characteristics of each of these things,
okay?
So when you take the assessment
to figure this out,
the way you do it is you
answer all these questions and
you give weight to different priorities
in a series of six questions.
And each of the options in those
six scenarios correlates to one
of these four concepts.
And what that ends up giving you is
a diagram that kind of is like an oddly
shaped thing that kind of maps
out how much flexible internal
orientation flexibility do you have, and
how much of this, and how much of that.
So what we can do though, is just by
me explaining these four quadrants,
you will probably be able
to kind of look at this.
And say, yeah,
I think my organization lives mostly here.
I have some suspicions already just
based on some of the questions that you
all have asked.
So let's talk through
these really quick and
then you can tell me
where you think you fit.
So the top left we're joining flexibility
with an internal orientation.
This is called collaborative or
a clan culture.
This is where you've got an eye toward
long-term development, cohesion morale,
mutual support, and the phrase here is
kind of like just doing things together.
That's the focus, right?
That bottom left we are joining
focus with an internal orientation,
and this is a control or
hierarchy culture.
So this is where progress
is really incremental.
This is respect.
There's a respect for hierarchy and
values placed on stability and
predictability, and doing things right.
And that top left, that's where
a lot of times a service company is.
In fact, that's where my organization,
Sparkbox, operates.
That's personally,
that's kind of where I live.
The bottom left is oftentimes things
like banking or healthcare or
even like the military, organizations
where there's more risk tend to
gravitate towards a more controlling
measured approach to things.
Now, this is a good point for
me to stop and
say, none of these are good or bad, okay?
So there are healthy versions
of a hierarchy culture,
there are unhealthy versions
of collaborative culture.
So they're healthy versions and
unhealthy of all four of these.
So I don't want you to associate your own
sort of, maybe baggage around the word
control or baggage around the word
collaborate with these quadrants.
Just think of them as neutral.
They're just different.
And then we'll talk through at some
point here in a moment the health and
unhealth scenarios that
can exist with each.
That make sense?
Okay, so in that top right, we're
looking at a flexible organization and
we're balancing that with
an external orientation.
So the authors call this a creative or
adhocracy culture where new
ideas can really break through.
There's flexibility, creativity,
disruption, entrepreneurship
is rewarded here and great value
is placed in doing things first.
A lot of times this is where your startup
or scale up organization exists, okay?
They're trying to figure out,
where does my product fit?
So, they need a lot of flexibility,
a lot of creativity, and
they're making decisions
based on the market, right?
Now, I had to look up the word adhocracy.
It just means the opposite of bureaucracy.
So, basically, anything goes [LAUGH].
So in the bottom right, we're left
with this one remaining cultural type,
and that's where we're joining focus
with an external orientation, and
this is a competitive or market culture.
So they've got an eye here
towards short term performance.
Acquisition tends to be a strategy for
growth here.
They're just buying up competitors
instead of trying to kind of beat
them in other ways in the market.
Individuals here are rewarded for
doing things fast, right?
Speed is just all about this, do it fast.
These are the companies that are again are
buying their competitors a lot of times.
And I'll also say it's normal for
your organization as it ages and
matures to move between these.
So one common scenario I've seen is I talk
with folks that are in some startup and
they're building a system.
They're up in that top right creative
scenario and then before they know it,
they're being pulled into competitive.
Cuz they found their niche and
now they're trying to go out and
just destroy the competition, right?
So that mindset shift happens a lot
in organizations and over time they
morph to sort of have more or less of
the characteristics of each of these.
And my conversations with folks and
in some additional surveys and
stuff that we've done with the industry.
We've done a bunch of work to try and
understand kind of what's
the perspective of the individuals
that are in these organizations.
And so I've added this sort
of layer of sentiments.
This is me kind of quoting
to you the things that I
hear these folks say just to kind of
give you another layer of understanding.
So what I'd love for you to do is just,
I'll read those and I just want you to
think about the CEO or the president of
your company, the sort of topmost leader.
And I want you to tell me which of these
do you think you could hear that person
saying?
So could you hear them say,
we're all about our people.
It's all about unity and collaboration.
Could you hear them say, we're going
to avoid risk at all costs here, right?
Could you hear them say, we wanna
disrupt the market, disrupt everything.
Or could you hear them say, look,
our job is just to beat the competition.
So I would love for you to to share
with me, if you're willing to share,
sort of where you feel your organization
as a whole fits in this model.
Anybody see it obviously or?
>> I feel like I'd get mixed results
depending upon which leader I'm
talking to.
>> Sure.
>> Our CEO would definitely
say disrupt everything.
Which I feel like has at times pushed us
into a corner that's hard to get out of.
Those that I work with on a regular
basis are more of the people first
which I think we've discussed as well.
Also kind of puts us in a little bit of a
circumstance where we're just designing in
circles because we're trying
to cater to everyone.
>> Yeah.
>> All the time, all at once.
>> Totally.
Yep.
>> Yeah.
So kind of in those top two.
>> Cool.
Anyone else have an easy decision here?
Is it clear to you?
No.
>> I think it depends on who you talk to.
>> Yeah, but to answer for me from the, if
I sat down and showed this to the CEO or
the president or the leader, the highest
level leader, what would they say?
What do they want the company to be?
>> People first.
>> Or avoid risk.
>> Yeah, those things,
it's on the left side.
>> Yeah.
>> Probably more people first,
but some avoid risk.
>> Got it.
Okay, that's clear.
>> Yeah.
>> I suspect we're heavily
in the beat the competition,
sort of disrupt everything,
but more of just move fast.
>> Yeah.
That's right, I can see that.
>> Probably people first.
>> People first, okay.
Yeah, with smaller teams a lot of
times that's the case, because they're
just hey we know each other,
we're like a family, it's that kinda feel.
Yeah, I mean, our company,
my company is definitely in that top left.
But what's interesting, some of what you
said, I think is really interesting,
and actually what you all said about,
it depends on who I talk to, and
that's actually very true.
And that's because culture is formed any
place where people are getting together
consistently.
So that means you have a culture
as an organization but
you also have a culture as a team,
or the group of folks who read
a book together over lunch every week,
they have a culture, right?
The whatever cross section of all the
people who care about, I don't even know,
how we're writing our documentation,
that group of people,
they got their own culture.
Those are all subcultures of
the bigger organizational culture.
And this is where things
get really interesting.
So that means if you've
got a design system,
your design system has its own subculture.